>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And I
think many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to this edition
of "Beyond Belief," as we
talk tonight about astrology.
Heather Arielle, of
course, is with us.
She is running
Arielle's Astrology.
And what a fascinating
subject-- I love this stuff.
How did you get
involved in astrology?
>>HEATHER ARIELLE: Well, I had
a reading many years ago just,
you know, out of curiosity.
And what happens when you
find a good astrologer
and you get a reading, you
quickly find out that it works.
So then I just delved into
it, and I read more and more.
And then I just,
through learning
and through
experience, said, OK.
This is-- I'm gonna do this.
>>NOORY: This is
what I want to do.
How did you know that she
or he was a good astrologer?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, I didn't.
It was actually
just-- oh, I'm just--
It was just a
moment where I just
said, let me just go do this.
I had a friend who had
it done, and it was fun.
And it was really only
after having it done
and then seeing what
happened, I said,
oh, my gosh, there's
really a lot to this.
And then I just went back.
And she's Mary
Keswani, and she's
a very prominent astrologer.
And she's just wonderful.
And I've ended up
learning so much from her.
>>NOORY: And
astrology, of course,
a little different
from numerology, right?
Where numerology is
dealing with your birth
date, and your
numbers, and stuff.
Astrology-- primarily what?
The mood of what the
stars were and the planets
when you were born?
>>ARIELLE: Exactly right.
Numerology-- it really does.
It's all about numbers.
And with astrology,
really it's the snapshot
of the cosmos the
moment you were born.
It's all about your natal chart.
And that's how we
create your natal chart.
So the first question an
astrologers asks is well,
when were you born?
And not just the day,
month, year, but we
really want to get as
exact a time as possible.
>>NOORY: So with
computers now, Heather,
I guess you can sit back
and type this all in,
and you can see what
exactly the patterns were
during that person's birth.
>>ARIELLE: It's
changed everything.
You can make charts
so quickly now,
and you can animate charts.
So you're really able to
look many years ahead just
at a glance, and it ends
up being so helpful.
And it also has brought
more people into it
because astrology
is complicated.
And so now, people
who have an interest
are actually able to
learn quite a lot.
So it's been very
good for astrology.
>>NOORY: And let's talk about
the astrology and why it works.
I mean, one would
think, oh, come
on now, the positions of
planets and everything
else during my
birth-- that's nice,
but how does that determine
who I am or what I will be?
How does that work?
>>ARIELLE: Well it
is hard to believe.
I mean, when I first
had my reading,
it was just as a lot of
people do, it's something fun.
But just because we don't
understand the mechanism
by which something
works, it doesn't
mean that it doesn't work.
You see this a lot
of time in medicine.
Doctors can prescribe
certain medicines.
And there's proof that
it has a certain effect
even though they don't
completely understand
the mechanism all the time.
It's really just
through experience--
have your chart done, and
you'll see that it does.
And it really doesn't
matter exactly why.
>>NOORY: Is there
something called
a bad astrological chart?
>>ARIELLE: Well, OK.
Each planet and each
sign-- there is a duality.
So I would never say,
this is a bad chart.
Charts can be afflicted
because we really
have-- people are very
familiar with their sun sign.
And people will
say, I'm a Scorpio.
I'm a Gemini.
But we really have--
>>NOORY: I'm a Gemini.
>>ARIELLE: I'm a Gemini too.
But we really have
five personal planets.
And so we need to look
at all of those planets.
And within each planet, there is
the high road and the low road.
This is where free
will comes in.
And a lot of people, sometimes
when they come to me,
they say, OK tell me
what's going to happen,
as if it's just all fated.
And I'll say, well,
I will tell you
the choices that you will face.
I'll tell you the
areas where you
may face a particular
challenge or obstacle.
But as always, we
have free will.
And if we activate that, we can
activate the highest potential
in our chart.
So you can't blame it.
If you do something bad, you
cannot blame it on the chart.
Some people have to work harder
if you have an afflicted chart.
So if you have hard aspects--
that some aspects are
very harmonious.
That's why some people
are born with-- oh, I
can just play the piano and
I never had to take a lesson.
Well that's a beautiful,
harmonious aspect in the chart.
>>NOORY: Maybe they were
the reincarnated Mozart.
>>ARIELLE: Absolutely.
Yeah, we come back over and
over to learn and develop.
>>NOORY: Is our destiny
already determined
by our astrological chart?
I mean, do we have
a choice here?
>>ARIELLE: Absolutely.
We always have a choice.
But the North Node--
that is what really I--
and a lot of astrologers--
we say, well, if we want
to see what is the destiny?
Another way of saying that--
the soul comes in to each life.
What does the soul need?
And that is represented
by the North Node.
So we do want to see, well,
what house does that fall in?
Because every natal chart
is broken into 12 houses.
So if that North Node is up
at the top of the chart, which
is a very prominent
position, the soul
needs to have a
public experience,
that whatever that
soul comes in to do,
that soul needs to share
it with the public.
So I would encourage the
client to follow that path.
But it's up to you to do it.
>>NOORY: It's
amazing how it works.
It really, really is.
>>ARIELLE: It is.
It is.
>>NOORY: When you look
at an astrological chart,
have you ever looked
at it, Heather,
to a point where
you go, oh my gosh!
I can't tell this person this!
>>ARIELLE: Well there certainly
are very serious aspects--
catastrophic illness--
>>NOORY: It's not all fun!
>>ARIELLE: Oh, absolutely not.
But it's all about what is
the person ready to hear?
What can I say that can
really inspire this person
to reach his or
her full potential?
And I really like to think of
astrology as opening doors.
And I say, well when
astrology opens a door,
it's important to
walk through it.
So I make them
very aware of this
is the energy that's coming in.
You can have a very
stressful health aspect.
And I say, well,
during this period,
it's a time then not to
overstress your body.
There are very specific
times when you should
make sure you get enough sleep.
If you begin to get sick,
you need to go to the doctor.
Check it out.
Don't put it off.
There are times when
you can put it off.
So you have to find a very
gentle way of how can you
share the information
that can inspire
them to use their free will
and make a positive change.
You don't ever
want to scare them.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
used astrology for couples?
Maybe they want to
see if they match up.
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
It's very common, and
it's very effective.
It's called synastry--
there are a couple.
You can use synastry,
and then you can also
use the composite chart.
Synastry is simply
a way-- I'll have
the two charts in front of me.
I look at the planets
in one person's chart,
and then I compare them to the
planets in the other person's
chart.
And I say, well, do
they make relationships?
If so, are they
harmonious relationships,
or are they combative?
And then well,
where do the planets
fall in each person's house?
Because there's a
house for marriage.
So if it's a romantic couple,
if one person's planets falls
in the other person's
house of marriage,
that person's going to
see his or her partner
as a real marriage partner.
But if that person's
planets fall
in maybe the house
of romance, it
doesn't quite see
the other person
as a significant relationship,
more as fun and games.
And so it's very revealing.
>>NOORY: How do you
use astrology, Heather,
most of the time?
>>ARIELLE: Most of the time,
it's on a very personal basis.
I help people understand
their natal chart
and then understand the
energy that's coming in,
how they can activate
their highest potential.
>>NOORY: When you try to
make recommendations to them,
do they listen?
Do they pick up on them?
>>ARIELLE: Well,
those are things
that I really can't control.
But that does show in the chart.
If there's a lot of
fixity in a chart,
then I know I have to be
very gentle because there
can be a resistance to change.
But if there's a lot
of mutability-- Gemini,
Sagittarius, Pisces-- there's
adaptability, a mutability.
There's ability to process
information very quickly.
So how I speak to a client
depends on what I see,
how I give that advice.
>>NOORY: You know, when you
look at the astrological charts
of people and the
astrological signs,
I know with myself
being the Gemini,
the Gemini being the
twins, I sometimes have
two different personalities.
It's kind of uncanny.
I sometimes wonder
if everybody has
two different personalities.
I'm not sure.
One of my daughters is a Taurus.
So she's somewhat
bullish and stubborn.
And sure enough, she is.
So it's kind of uncanny how
these astrological charts
and symbols determine what
that personality seems to be.
I can't figure it out, but
it's pretty close-- how come?
>>ARIELLE: Well it's not that
it so much completely determines
the personality, but we come
in with such specific energy.
So Gemini can then
color-- Gemini
is so playful and curious.
And if it hits your sun,
that affects your very ego.
And then if the
energy hits your moon,
that's going to affect your
emotional life, how we respond.
And then Mars-- that's
really the planet of action.
And it tells me
whether somebody's
going to be passive-aggressive,
assertive, even violent,
or even conflict-avoidant.
Yes, and then depending on
the sign-- so Pisces in Mars.
Mars doesn't really like to be
in Pisces, because Mars likes
to go just full steam ahead.
Mars likes to be in Aries.
And so that's going
to tell me this person
may need a little bit
more encouragement
to initiate and to move forward.
>>NOORY: Have you
sometimes backed
into an astrological
report inasmuch
as to test how accurate it is
because it's already happened?
So you would say
something like, OK,
this person's a Gemini,
and these things
I see in the chart.
But then you look at
what they're doing,
and you say, yeah, it matches
up-- where you backdated it.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, absolutely.
Especially, when I have
several clients because I'm
an astrological counselor--
so a lot of my clients,
I speak to them quite often.
And we do-- we go back
over monumental moments
in their lives.
And I'm always looking at what's
going on because astrology
is really about cycles.
So Saturn, every 29
years, we know Saturn's
going to go around our chart.
Every 12 years, Jupiter is
And so we have chance
to experience it again.
So I always talk
about, so how was
that experience when Jupiter
was at the top of your chart?
It's a mini-high watermark.
And so I want to say,
well, was that person
able to achieve that potential?
What happened?
And I'll say, well,
it's coming up again.
This is the time to
expand your public persona
or expand your career.
So it's very important
to know how you
have responded to past energy.
Because for the
most part, you're
going to get another chance.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's look at me.
>>ARIELLE (laughing): OK!
>>NOORY: And let's see
how accurate it is.
And I'll try to be
as honest as I can.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, of course!
>>NOORY: As I always am.
>>ARIELLE: Oh, absolutely, and
there's honesty in your chart,
so I would expect nothing less.
So yes, and you've mentioned--
so you have the Gemini sun--
Mercury rules Gemini.
So already, that's
excellent for communication.
But it's just your
sun is in Gemini.
And it's interesting because
anything Mercury touches,
Mercury speeds up.
So since Mercury
rules Gemini, it
means Geminis are
usually-- they can quickly
process information.
And that's why they're
so good at communicating.
Now what's interesting
is-- that was interesting
that you said that
your daughter's
a Taurus, because you have a
lot of Taurus in your chart.
Your Mercury, which is the
planet of communication,
is in Taurus.
And that is very grounded.
It's earthy.
Taurus slows Mercury down.
So if you have too much Gemini,
you can just talk nonstop.
And it's almost hard
for people to follow.
There's just a nice, slow
way that you're able--
>>NOORY: It's a calming.
>>ARIELLE: There's a
calming stability in the way
that you speak that,
then, you allow
people to process what
you say, and that's
a very Taurian energy.
It also says your midheaven.
That is really the
degree that says, well,
what should this person
be doing as far as career?
And it's interesting
that that is in Taurus.
I would've, just
without knowing,
I would have-- a
couple hours later,
you would have had
a Gemini midheaven.
But that means it really
is about your voice.
That part of what you're
supposed to be doing
is communicating--
but specifically
through your voice.
Because Taurus really rules.
It rules the neck.
It rules the thyroid.
I mean, it rules the voice.
So you're probably going
to have a beautiful voice,
and it's going to
be very powerful.
>>NOORY (high-pitched voice):
I'm looking forward to it.
>>ARIELLE (laughing):
Exactly-- just like that!
And what's also interesting--
your ascendant and your rising
sign.
And that is something-- unless
you get your chart done,
people are not that aware of
what their rising sign is.
That's actually the
energy we give off
when we first meet someone.
So even though you have
this Gemini and Taurus,
you give off Leo energy.
That's the sign of
the entertainer.
Leos are comfortable being in
the public, in front of people.
They like an audience.
But what's interesting
is that you have Pluto.
And we haven't mentioned
the outer planets.
>>NOORY: Is Pluto a planet?
>>ARIELLE: Well, it,
according to-- in astrology,
it's just as powerful.
It doesn't matter what
anybody wants to call Pluto.
It does not change the
power that Pluto has.
Just as we can rename
roses tomorrow,
they're still going
to smell like a rose
and be as beautiful.
So the outer planets are very
significant in a natal chart
when they come in close
contact with a natal planet.
You have Pluto very
close to your ascendant.
So yes, you give off Leo energy.
But because Pluto's there,
it intensifies the effect
because anything Pluto touches
intensifies and adds power.
And you do have a powerful
persona that you give off.
And also what falls under
Pluto, the highest manifestation
of Plutonian energy
is transformation.
Gandhi had powerful
Scorpio Plutonian energy.
Pluto rules Scorpio.
So you can transform
society for the better.
And in your chart-- because
I always recommend--
this is the highest
potential of this chart.
You communicate
through your voice
to transform society
for the better
through discussing
taboo subjects.
Because Pluto, really--
it's those subjects
that you really don't want
to talk about at dinner.
They're not-- it's not
polite dinner conversation.
These are things that make
people feel uncomfortable.
But you will have a knack.
People with a strong
Pluto or Scorpio,
they have a knack
for shining a light
on these difficult subjects.
So then other people
can understand them.
And also, your
North node-- when we
talked about what
your soul needs--
it's in the eighth house.
Scorpio rules that house.
It's the house of
transformation.
That magnifies the Plutonian
energy on your ascendant.
Even the title of this show--
"Beyond Belief--" I mean,
those are taboo subjects.
Those are Plutonian themes.
And so you're clearly
activating high potential.
>>NOORY: When you put together
a chart like this for somebody,
do you make recommendations?
Do you ask them to alter
things in their life,
or do you just lay it out there?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, well, I make
them very aware of the duality
of the planets.
Especially, I would make them
very aware of Pluto saying, OK,
this is the high road.
This is the low road.
You always want to have
awareness that you're
activating the high road.
Because what happens
when we're not aware?
We can slip in to
the low road behavior
because it's just not
something we're aware of.
So that's what I always
suggest to people--
but they have to
make that decision.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
I have a business chart.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, you do.
>>NOORY: Tell me about that.
>>ARIELLE: Yes, anything that
has a beginning has a chart.
And a lot of people,
they don't realize that.
So your business-- the
moment that you aired
your first show-- is a chart.
And I actually work
with people when
they want to open a business
because you can choose it.
So work with a
good astrologer, I
tell people, if you want
to start a business.
Because you're going to be
stuck with this chart for as
long as this show is going on.
Now I was told the
shows are pretty much
available by midnight.
So we did a midnight chart.
So first, I'm just
going to talk about what
it is in the business chart,
just as a business chart.
It has a Virgo.
It's Virgo rising.
And that's interesting
because Mercury
rules Virgo, and Mercury
rules communication.
So for a communications
show, that's all wonderful.
That says the
health of the show.
Now the midheaven is the most
important degree in a business
chart because that
says it really
needs to be in the sign
that rules the business.
And I was just so
happy when I saw it.
But the midheaven degree--
the sign on the midheaven
is Gemini-- it's ideal.
>>NOORY: Hmm.
Did I fall into this, or what?
>>ARIELLE: Well, when
you take the higher path,
I have found things tend
to-- its divine timing.
Things tend to work out then.
So if you carry
yourself with awareness
and you're pursuing that, then
you intuitively just know.
Well, you had a
wonderful-- Jupiter
in the chart makes a wonderful
aspect with your moon.
And when you're a
public person, the moon
represents how you're
perceived in the public.
And that was a chance.
When this show
aired, you personally
were having a chance to
expand your public persona.
So you intuitively knew that
and you took advantage of it.
And that's why the
chart is working.
Also you want to see
what is Mercury doing?
Because Mercury rules the
midheaven of this chart.
And it's in-- thank goodness.
I was so happy-- a beautiful
aspect with Uranus.
Uranus rules technology.
So if you have a website,
a radio show, TV,
any kind of-- where you're
going to involve communications
and technology, you need
to see harmonious aspects
between Mercury and Uranus.
So that's wonderful.
Now the only thing I would say--
>>NOORY: Ah, is
there a blip here?
You're like a doctor going,
you're in pretty good health
except--
[LAUGHTER]
>>NOORY: What are you
going to tell me here?
>>ARIELLE: Well, that it's
not a complete story until I
put your chart on top of it.
>>NOORY: --which I'm
sure you've done--
>>ARIELLE: Yes, I have.
Because even though a
business chart can be great,
we need to see what is
the owner, the founder,
or in this case when
it's a show, the host.
So the only concern
I had with this chart
was that so many planets
were at the bottom.
And that's the foundation,
which is wonderful.
Ideally, I said oh, I would have
liked more charts at the top.
But when I put your
chart on top of it
because you have Gemini and
Taurus, all of your planets
are on the top of
your business chart.
So all of a sudden, you
have a complete chart.
And that is the ideal.
That's why you need to really
be looking at both charts that
do they complement one another?
And your Mars-- your
energy-- sits right
on top of the ascendant.
>>NOORY: Is that good?
>>ARIELLE: It's
wonderful because you
have energy for this.
If the Mars made a
hard aspect, that
means the business
could be draining,
could be exhausting in a
way that people give up.
But that there's an
alignment between your goals,
your energy, and the chart.
>>NOORY: I never give up.
That's my personality.
>>ARIELLE: Well that is--
you have a lot of fixity.
Pluto, Leo, your
moon is an Aquarius--
fixed signs have tenacity.
They have that perseverance.
They are able to follow
through to the end.
When you have too
much mutability,
you're kind of all
over the place.
You start a lot of things,
but you don't necessarily
finish them.
So that's your
fixity coming out.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
OK.
And we have another chart
of my working relationship
with my executive producer
Tom Danheiser and me.
Now what does this mean?
>>ARIELLE: So what I
did, I took Tom's chart,
and then I crossed it
with yours to see, well,
what's the synastry?
Because that's the synastry.
What's going on there?
And also it's a good example.
Just looking at Tom's
chart-- I will have to say,
I don't have his ascendant.
So I'm working
with a solar chart.
That is when we take the sun
and we make that the ascendant.
But it's still very accurate.
Now Tom's chart's
a good example why
we are so much more
than just our sun sign.
He's Pisces.
>>NOORY: Yeah, he's
March 16, I think.
>>ARIELLE: Yes.
Yes.
And so he's got a Pisces sun.
However, he has Jupiter
right on top of that sun.
Jupiter expands
anything it touches.
Jupiter rules Sagittarius.
So that means because Pisces
can be very-- Pisces retreat.
Pisces can be very receptive.
If you have a lot of
Pisces or Neptune,
you can be super sensitive.
It's not the most active energy.
And I remember when
I first met Tom.
He's so charismatic,
so articulate.
And when he said he was a
Pisces, I was like, well,
I got to see this chart
because there's going
to be a lot more going on.
Because you don't have that
charisma with just Pisces.
And that's Jupiter bringing
Sagittarius energy.
Well, what's great
when in your chart,
Sagittarius is the
opposite of Gemini.
It's the ideal complement.
Sag is fiery.
Gemini is air.
Think about how air fuels fire.
So we love to put air
and fire together.
So even though because
Pisces and Gemini
aren't the greatest mix.
But that's why you really need
to see what else is going on.
>>NOORY: Should
I get rid of him?
>>ARIELLE (laughing): No.
That would not be
a smart decision.
>>NOORY: It would be a bad
business move on my part.
>>ARIELLE: That would be.
Yes, that that would be.
>>NOORY: Oh, well.
>>ARIELLE: There are a lot of
wonderful, dynamic oppositions.
Some astrologers, they
really like conjunctions.
They want your Gemini sun
to go with his Gemini moon.
I frankly find that
a little boring.
I don't want to be with
someone who's just like me.
So I find in the
most successful,
dynamic relationships,
you want somebody
bringing something else to
the table that complements.
So not only he's bringing-- his
moon is even in Sagittarius.
And that complements
your Gemini.
But then you've got
this earthy Taurus,
and that does complement
the watery Pisces.
And then he's got
some Aquarian energy.
You have Aquarian energy.
So you do have some
real combinations,
and some real similarities.
And one really
interesting-- Mars.
Mars can make things
really exciting.
Now Mars can make
things combative.
But as long as you are open
to intellectual debate--
as I know Geminis are-- then I
think it's a fantastic aspect.
Because your Mars
lights up his chart.
His Mars lights up your chart.
This is a dynamic relationship,
a lot of intellectual debate.
And you can challenge each
other in very positive ways.
>>NOORY: If you were to
look at two people who
did not get along, and then
looked at their charts,
would they show that to you?
>>ARIELLE: Oh, absolutely.
Now you can have an
aspect-- someone's Mars
can oppose someone's sun.
Now that's going to be
difficult for some people,
inspiring for others.
It all depends on what that
natal chart can handle.
Some people-- they really
can't handle too much conflict.
They need to have people just
agree with them all the time.
So that's going to be a
more difficult aspect.
So the first thing
I always do is
look at the natal
charts of the couple,
and then I look at the aspects.
Because that will tell me
how they will interpret them.
But with awareness, we
can always-- I mean,
challenges are just challenges.
We can always overcome
them with effort.
>>NOORY: Using this
in your everyday life,
do you use it as a guidepost?
How do people implement
what you've just told me?
>>ARIELLE: Oh.
Well, you can incorporate
it right away.
Especially if I'm with
a couple, I can then
encourage certain activities.
There was one couple
that I just spoke to.
They were fighting
like cats and dogs.
They had Mars was
very activated.
When they had first
got together-- now
in a romantic relationship,
it's great sex.
So when they first
got together, it
was this passionate, wild sex.
And it was great.
And then after 10
years, they just
started fighting all the time.
And it was really
saying, well, you
need healthy outlets
for your Mars energy.
Go hiking together.
Go rock climbing.
Play competitive sports.
>>NOORY: But why together?
Why not separately?
>>ARIELLE: Well, because
this is the synastry.
It's in their synastry.
It's not in their natal chart.
This is as a couple.
How can they become closer?
>>NOORY: All right.
Sometimes as a
couple, you're closer
when you're not together.
>>ARIELLE: And
that will show up.
Certain people really
want a lot of freedom.
If you have Aquarius
in your chart,
you can want a lot of freedom.
Geminis aren't the most--
they can be a little detached.
But then Taurus-- you have
a lot of different energy
in the chart, which
is interesting.
When you can integrate a
lot of different signs,
that's when we
become very complex.
>>NOORY: I'm pretty flexible,
but I also change a lot.
You know, I like a lot
of different things
at any different time.
>>ARIELLE: And that's
classic Gemini.
Geminis are curious.
We can get bored--
because I'm a Gemini too.
We get bored if it's just
the same environment,
the same thing over and over.
>>NOORY: We're also
a little compulsive
about certain things.
>>ARIELLE: Oh!
>>NOORY: Do you see that?
>>ARIELLE: Yes, but that's
more because of your Pluto
on your ascendant.
Pluto rules obsession
and that kind of energy.
And Pluto can really get you
very excited and passionate
on a topic.
>>NOORY: I mean, like I
have a light bulb fetish.
You know what that is?
Guess-- what do
you think that is?
>>ARIELLE (laughing):
You like light bulbs.
>>NOORY: No.
I like to replace
burned out light bulbs.
>>ARIELLE: OK, that's
actually in your Virgo.
>>NOORY: I find it to
be a lack of something
if it's burned out.
If I see a burned-out light bulb
at a restaurant or a sign going
into a place, to me,
that's carelessness.
>>ARIELLE: Well, now
I would attribute that
to your Mars in Virgo.
Because Virgo is very-- they
want everything in place,
and they're detailed.
And that would
definitely bother a Virgo
to have something burned out,
and you would want to put that.
And then you have energy to do
that because that's your Mars.
>>NOORY: Nothing
wrong with that--
>>ARIELLE: Absolutely
nothing wrong with that--
>>NOORY: Great.
Heather, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>ARIELLE: Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: I appreciate it.
Fascinating astrology.
I mean, who would wonder
that the stars could
determine who you are?
Heather Arielle-- she knows.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."